=======================================================
Comparison with elasticsearch-py, the "Official Client"
=======================================================

pyelasticsearch was created before Elasticsearch-the-company provided its own
client libraries for anything other than Java. There was no reliable,
large-scale ES client for Python: pyes was closest, but it suffered from
unreliability and pervasive weirdness, like closing sockets in ``__del__`` and
doing things which were obvious no-ops. We adapted pyelasticsearch from an
older, very simple client library and gave it a complete API overhaul in
version 0.2, inspired by the principles of `poetic API design
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQYnFyG7A8c>`_.

Elasticsearch-the-company later created its own clients, with a strong leaning
toward keeping them similar across languages for ease of support and
maintenance. The upside is that their libraries always support the latest ES
features, down to every last nook and cranny, because the relevant parts are
autogenerated from a generic API description language. The downside is that
they feel autogenerated: some things end up less than Pythonic, limited to the
common feature set of supported languages.


Which Should You Use?
=====================

The official Python client borrows much design—and code—from pyelasticsearch.
Starting in 1.0, we return the favor, using elasticsearch-py's transport layer
rather than maintaining its own. The important differences remain at the API
level.

In general, pyelasticsearch focuses on...

* Pythonic-ness

  pyelasticsearch is designed to feel elegant to the caller. For example, we
  strive for symmetry: creating an index is ``es.create()``, and searching one
  is ``es.search()``. In elasticsearch-py, creating an index is
  nested inside ``es.indices.create(<index name>)``, an artifact of code
  organization. The tradeoff for added design thought is that the project moves slower.

* Good defaults and simple interfaces

  For example, there is only a single transport, HTTP, but it is almost always
  the right one. Thrift, the leading alternative, yields a 15% speed boost but
  only when using many small requests. It doesn't help at all for bulk
  indexing, where speed is most often a concern, and it complicates
  troubleshooting, proxying, and setup.

  The tradeoff here is that we don't expose as many knobs to twiddle as the
  official client. If you have unusual needs, we might not be for you.
  Otherwise, you can enjoy less verbose code.

* Safety

  If something fails, it always raises an exception, making it hard to
  accidentally ignore. elasticsearch-py doesn't always do this: you need to
  check for errors explicitly when using its bulk indexing helper, for example.

  In addition, data loss is hard to stumble into; we put up guiderails. For
  example, calling the update-settings API with no indices would, if we simply
  followed the ES REST API, update all indices, a far-reaching destructive
  action caused by an omission. We require the explicit use of an
  ``update_all_settings()`` method if you want to do this.

* Better documentation

  You should never need to read the source code to figure out what to do. In
  order to twiddle many of the aforementioned knobs in elasticsearch-py, you
  must squirrel kwargs down through multiple undocumented layers, from
  constructor to constructor, until something finally understands them. On the
  way, it's often unclear what's public and what's private.

  Our top-level docs are comprehensive with regard to our API, we link to the
  ES docs for details about their system, and we try to respect the Law of
  Demeter in our layering.

Conversely, elasticsearch-py focuses on...

* Exhaustive functionality

  It provides explicit hooks into every corner of ES and keeps up to date with
  ES releases.

  Our strategy is to provide :ref:`forward-compatibility-kwargs` (which
  elasticsearch-py adopted as well) and
  :meth:`~pyelasticsearch.ElasticSearch.send_request()` for the period between
  an ES release and when we design APIs for its new features.

* Cross-language homogeneity

  If you're using ES from multiple languages every day, you might enjoy an API
  that looks similar across them.

  Conversely, we aim for idiomatic Python.
